So let's go back to our Kata machine and
let's go down to Dijkstra's.
So this is a DijkstraList.
It looks like we're gonna be using
an adjacency list, how great is that, and
we have to do this.
Yes, I have built this before.
This is not like I'm gonna come up here
and just do this for the first time,
that would be just silly of me.
So we can use this as kind
of our general guide, right?
But we do need to implement a couple
things, right, which you can imagine has
unvisited, is gonna be something
we're gonna need to implement.
And also get lowest unvisited is also
something we're gonna need to implement.
Now, something I am gonna do is I'm
going to intentionally implement it not
the fastest.
So for all the people in the chat,
they're gonna be like, [SOUND].
Don't do that, let it go, okay?
That way, everyone can enjoy
the beautiful surprise at the end.
So of course, the first thing
we need is a seen list again.
Cuz again, you don't have a seen list if
you use the right data structure, but
in this case,
we aren't using the right data structure.
New array is going to be,
of course, the arrays length.
It's an adjacency list, which means it
represents each one of the nodes and
their connection to other nodes.
So array length fill(false),
awesome, seen(source).
We don't even need to do that,
we'll do it in the algorithm, awesome.
Then we need to go const dist = new
Array(arr.length.fill(infinity), right?
That means it's just super large number,
right?
It's unreachable from this point,
you don't have to use infinity.
But for checking sake, and
maybe this is a really large graph that
generates a really large value,
best probably use infinity, right?
All right, so
let's go dists[source] = 0, right?
This is the smallest distance possible.
We're already at the source,
therefore awesome, all right?
We don't know any other distance yet.
We just simply know the distance to
the source, which is always going to be 0.
And so now, of course,
we do the greatest thing ever.
Let's create a,
we don't actually have to create it.
We'll do the Lord's loop, a do while.
Now, we don't have to use a do while.
In fact, I'm not gonna use
the Lord's loop for this one,
we're actually just gonna use this.
Remember we had two functions in here and
I intentionally made them into functions,
hasUnvisited and getLowestUnvisited.
And the reason why I did that is I wanna
hide the data structure that is better.
So we will go like this, hasUnvisited, and
I'm gonna pass in seen, scenery, right?
Sounds good?
We could technically also pass a dists
array, and so that way it's unseen, but
it's distances infinity.
Then we go, hey, we can't see this thing.
So that makes sense?
All right,
then we also need to get current,
which is going to be getLowestUnvisited,
right?
And that will be seen and dists again.
All right, so we need to implement
these two based on the data
structures we have
currently chosen to use.
So let's go up here and
go function hasUnvisited,
it's gonna take in a Boolean array,
correct?
Yes okay,
awesome scene is gonna be a Boolean array.
I always sometimes confuse it with
the chicken square, which is boiling,
don't do that.
All right, so seen array,
and then of course dists,
which is going to be a number array,
correct?
Awesome, and
let's do a Boolean right here.
A boiling, we're gonna get
some chicken juices in here.
All right, so we have that one.
And then let's also do getLowestUnvisited,
again, exact same stuff.
And we're going to need to return
something out this time though.
We're gonna want to return out our index
that is the slowest unvisited item.
All right, we're going to assume in
this function that if we're calling it,
there is 1.
Make sense?
Awesome, great, good, let's go.
So hasUnvisited,
this should be pretty easy, has = false.
Look at that, it's has.
Why not, for( let i =0,
i has to be less than seen.
Actually, you know what,
we finally have a chance to do this.
Let's go, seen.some,
whether it's true or not,
whether it's seen and its index.
So if it's not seen and it's dist,
it's less than infinity.
I believe that should work.
I always forget about infinity.
Let's try this,
node is infinity less than infinity.
[SOUND] It's not less than infinity, good.
So if this thing is less than infinity,
we should be good, right?
That number is obviously
less than infinity, perfect.
Okay, we found something that does work,
perfect.
I'm glad they didn't be like,
well ,what's your LF of your infinity?
I'm glad we don't have to deal with that
cuz that would have been harder to do.
So there we go, we have our unvisited,
we're gonna visit every single scene, and
see is there something that's false and
its distance is less than infinity.
Perfect, so now let's go like this,
idx = 0 or we'll go -1.
And we'll go let lowestDistance =,
gosh, let's do infinity.
Yeah, look at that infinity.
So now we're gonna walk through
all of our distances and see,
hey, what is the lowest distance,
and it has to be an unseen node.
Makes sense?
Awesome, for let i = 0,
i have to be less than seen.length, ++i.
If we've already seen this one,
well, we can kinda continue, yeah?
Yeah, awesome, good.
Great answer everybody.
If dists[i] is less than infinity,
and, well,
actually we don't even need to do that.
We kinda make the assumption
that no matter,
what when we're calling this function,
this above case is true.
Therefore, this case will eventually
happen, it will always be true.
So if lowest distance is greater than,
if it's greater than this distance,
we have found a distance that is smaller,
so we're gonna use that one.
So lowestDistance = dists[i].
Fantastic, let's do this.
And at that point,
all we need to do is return out
the index in which that happened.
So index = i,
that's the lowest index, right?
We return out the lowest index.
Fantastic, we found it,
we found the one that's gonna do that.
Again, we walk through every single one of
these and then return out the lowest one.
All right, so now we're at this beautiful
point, we've implemented these two.
So now the only thing left we have
to do is do the rest of this stuff,
which isn't too hard.
We need to say to the seen,
we need to go through every single edge.
Long as we haven't seen this edge,
we calculate the distance,
we technically don't even need to
do this haven't seen the edge,
because we will be able to use
the distance formula to not update.
Either way, it doesn't really matter.
If we haven't seen this edge,
we'll calculate its distance,
which is based on my distance
plus the distance to that edge.
If it's less than its best known distance,
we're gonna push both the previous and
the dists array with new values.
Sounds good?
Great, all right, so seen[curr] = true.
We have now officially seen this,
isn't it just beautiful?
Are we just happy we've seen this?
It's like Top Gun, it's super good.
Actually I haven't seen Top Gun,
I'm really excited to see it.
All right, so now we need to
go through every single edge.
I forget, what are we using for
edges in here?
We are using a weighted adjacency list,
which, of course, can be a 2D graph edge.
So let's go here and
go const adjs =, is it graph?
What did I call this thing?
Array, terrible naming.
All right, so this should be able
to give us the list of our edges.
So now we can go through each edge.
Let i = 0,
i has to be less than adjs.length: ++ i.
Let's go, and
now we can grab out the edge.
So first, if seen edge,
const edge = adjs[i],
so if edge.to, if we've seen this one,
we're gonna continue.
Wow, that was good spelling.
Please tell me you like that spelling,
that was.
All right, so
now we need to calculate its distance.
Remember its distance isn't just
simply the weight of the edge, but
it's the weight of
the edge plus my distance.
So from the source,
everything has a 0 plus their weight.
Then we see the next closest one and
we adjust all the weights,
then we see the next closest one,
adjust all the weights.
So let's see what we got here.
So we go dist = dists
from our current item,
plus the edge.weight.
That is the dist to this
node from the node we're at.
Make sense?
And so
if this dist is less than the known dists
of the edge, then we need to update.
So we can just go dists[edge.to]
equals the new smaller disk,
and our previous edge.to has
a new parent of current.
Don't I have to call it pre,
what did I call it?
I didn't even do a previous.
How are you gonna know our way back?
We won't, man.
All right, there we go, and
that should really be the end of it.
We'll keep going until we
have nothing left to look at.
Every single time we pop something off,
we mark it as seen,
update the possible shortest
distance that is known.
And then just do that over and over again,
getting the lowest possible
distance each time.
All right, so now all we have left is
to just walk our distance backwards and
we're done.
Again, let me look at the return,
my goodness, look at this, I'm a genius.
This time we actually just
simply did a number array.
So as long as there is a pathway
from our source node to our sink,
we'll have an array with values in it.
If there's not,
it's just an empty array, fantastic.
It's almost as if I've updated this.
Okay, yeah,
that's the only error, perfect.
So let's do that one more time.
Again, exact same thing.
const out is a number array and
it's an empty array.
Let current equals our needle,
or, in this case,
I called it our sink,
where we want to go to.
And now,
we do that same while loop one last time.
While previous current does not equal -1,
push it into our path, out.push[curr].
And then update our current to
the parent that got us to this point,
curr = prev[curr].
All right, there we go, we're just
walking one parent back at a time.
Remember, the previous is who was
the last person to update our
distance to the shortest known path.
At this point, we need to do
the exact same trick we did before.
We don't include the source
in this kind of roll up, so
we're gonna have to do [source].concat,
of course, with something else.
Or if we wanna be a little cheeky about
it, we could always do one of these,
out.push(source), and
then just simply out.reverse.
Look at that, a little different
this time, kinda fun to do.
It's always good to change things up,
because that way if you get it wrong,
you can always blame it on the fact
that you changed up live as opposed
to just sticking to the script.
All right, awesome, this is a lot of code?
We did 63 lines of code,
including whitespace.
And so let's see,
did we actually get this thing right?
npx jest Dij How was that?
It feels good, I'm not gonna lie to you,
that feels good.